= Installation =
__TOC__
== Deployment Modes ==
For the time being three deployment artefacts are available:
* <b>Docker Image</b>  - Prefered and well tested deployment mode. Easy to update and migrate once new releases are available. Takes just a few minutes to login to metaphacts registry, pull the platform image and start the container.
* <b>ZIP Artefact</b> - No external dependencies. Simply unzip and run the start script (batch or shell). Recommended for quick getting started or for constrained environments. No automated upgrade procedures.
* <b>WAR Archive</b> - For quick deployments into existing J2EE web application environments (e.g. Tomcat). No automated upgrade procedures.

<b>Please contact <a href="mailto:support@metaphacts.com">support@metaphacts.com</a> in order to request access to downloads and/or credentials for docker registry.</b>
==Docker Deployment==
Within the docker environment, the platform and Blazegraph will run in two separate docker containers.

# Install Docker (see [https://docs.docker.com/installation/ official documentation])
# Login into Metaphacts docker registry
##> docker login docker.metaphacts.com
# Pull latest platform and blazegraph image
##> docker pull docker.metaphacts.com/blazegraph:1.5.2
##> docker pull docker.metaphacts.com/platform:0.5.0
##> docker pull docker.metaphacts.com/platform-data:0.5.0
# Prepare & run Blazegraph container
## Create data (journal) container for Blazegraph container
###> docker create --name blazegraph-journal -v /blazegraph-data ubuntu
## Run Blazegraph container with data container mounted
###> docker run --name blazegraph -d --restart=always -p 10080:8080 --env JAVA_OPTS="" --volumes-from blazegraph-journal docker.metaphacts.com/blazegraph:1.5.2
# Prepare & Run Platform container
## Create platform data container from image
###> docker create --name platform-data docker.metaphacts.com/platform-data:0.5.0
## Create & Run platform container
###> docker run --name platform -d --restart=always -p 10214:8080 --link blazegraph:blazegraph --volumes-from platform-data --env PLATFORM_OPTS="-DstartPage=Help:Start -DrepositoryType=sparql -Dendpoint=http://blazegraph:8080/bigdata/sparql -Dcom.metaphacts.config.location=/config/config.prop -DworkingDir=/ -DappsFolder=/apps/" docker.metaphacts.com/platform:0.5.0
# Open http://dockerip:10214/ in your browser (i.e. run 'boot2docker ip' to get IP from boot2docker)
==ZIP Artefact==
# Unzip artefact
# Unix: Make start.sh executeable
##> chmod +x start.sh
# Start platform
##> sh start.sh (Unix) or doubleclick start.bat (Windows)
# Open http://localhost:10214/ in your browser
# Login with admin/admin (please refer to [[Help:BasicSystemConfiguration]] in order to change the standard login)
Please refer to README.txt (located in root folder of the artefact) for further information. 
==WAR Archive==
Please refer to official <a href="https://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-6.0-doc/deployer-howto.html#Deploying_using_the_Tomcat_Manager" target="_blank">Tomcat Documentation</a> for details on deployments of web application container. 